All right.
The next thing I want to do is to add a test suite for our new composable.
So let's create that test file right now.
I'm going to go to my file explorer.
And in the tests unit directory in composable, I'll create a new test file and I'll call it use previous
and next pages that test dot just let me drag that file over to the right and begin with an import of
the composable I have on the left hand side.
So import use previous and next page from the source directory composable is use previous and next pages.
Looks like it is plural, but everything looks correct in my file name.
Perfect.
Then I want to create a described block for my new composable use previous and next pages.
And as a reminder, we have a composable function that returns an object with two computed properties
to reactive properties.
And each one of those computed properties also has different branches of logic.
So in this one, for example, we have a ternary operation.
So there are two possible return values.
And here there are also two possible return values.
And again, maybe, you know, in the grand scheme, maybe it is better to break this into two composable
functions like use previous pages and use next pages and feed each one just what they need.
Totally valid.
I wouldn't hold it against you.
I would say thumbs up for now.
I just wanted to keep a different approach to have a function that return an object of reactive properties
just to show you what that would be like.
And so in our tests for this one composable function that we're going to have to tackle all of those
scenarios, previous page, next page, and all of their possible return values.
So let's begin with this one.
It calculates page before current one.
So this is going to be for my previous page section.
So what I'm going to do here is define what is going to be my current page and max page arguments that
I pass into this function my invoke.
So once again, we do not need an actual new reactive object.
We just need an object with a value property because that will be good enough to play the role.
So let's say I have a current page object and I'll give it a value.
Property set to eight.
And let's see, I have a max page object and that will be an object with a value property set to ten.
And this is the case if our Max page is ten and our current page is eight, then our next page in line
should be nine if our logic is correct.
So I'm going to use previous in next page and when I invoke that function, I'm going to pass in current
page and max page.
What that is going to give back to me is an object and I want to restructure the previous page property
from that object that's going to be this thing right here.
And remember previous page by itself is going to be a reactive object.
So I need to make sure to access the value property and that of course should be equal to actually I
made a mistake.
Apologies if my current page's eight and my max page is ten.
My next page is nine.
But this one is concerned about the previous one before current one.
So my previous page is going to be seven.
Seven comes before eight.
All right.
There we go.
That's going to work.
All right.
Now, for my second scenario, I'm going to add a describe here.
When current page is the first page.
In that scenario, we are not going to have a previous page.
So we can see in this ternary operator that we are instead going to get the value undefined, undefined
wrapped in a reactive object, but still undefined.
So right here, I'm going to say it does not provide previous page code to be very similar to our last
task.
So let me copy a lot of that set up.
So right here, I'm going to copy a lot of this set up right here pasted down below.
So for my current page to be the first page, I have to make this value equal to one.
So my current page is the first page.
My max page, let's say, is going to be one.
So if my current page's one, my max paid is one, I'm on the first page, there is no previous page.
Navigate two.
So what I really want to check is that this is going to be undefined.
So in jest we can do this, we can compare if it's going to be undefined, but the better approach is
to actually use a built in matcher, a built in method that's a little bit more precise and checking
for it.
And that method is literally called to be undefined.
So I'm simply basically checking that the value property on previous page returns undefined and that
takes care of this logic of undefined.
And I'm going to write two complementary tests for my, my other half of the object that I return,
which is the next page property.
So right here it calculates page after current one.
All right.
And once again, our setup is going to be pretty similar.
So let me copy this logic right here.
At least the first three lines right here.
All right.
And let me fix the tape I have here calculates.
Okay.
So our current page is eight hour max.
Page is ten.
We care about our next page in this test.
So I'm going to swap this destruction to be next page.
And here I'm going to check in on the value property on that reactive object.
And once again, this is the mistake I made earlier.
If a current page's eight and our Max page is not as ten, then our next page is going to be nine.
That is the correct one in line.
I'm going to save that and we are going to get a passing test.
Then once again, I'll add another described block for the alternate scenario, which is when current
page is the last page, then there is no next page to go to and I should get undefined.
So I'm going to copy most of this logic.
Right except down below.
Let's say my current page's eight and my max page is also eight.
That fulfills the description.
Here went current pages, the last page.
I do have to write this in an actual test right here so it does not provide next page.
I have to wrap my actual assertions in an IT function call or we're going to get errors.
And just so let me just cut and paste that another rookie mistake by yours truly.
I'm going to paste the right here.
So once again, current pages eight, max page is eight.
We are on the last page.
So next page is not going to have a value of nine, it's going to have a value of undefined.
There is no next page after the last page.
Save that.
And with that, we have a passing test.
All right.
So feeling pretty good.
We have the composable tested.
And once again, I know I've repeated this point a million times, but the cool thing about this is
now the logic of calculating whether we're subtracting correctly, adding correctly, determining whether
it's undefined or valid value.
That logic is now isolated in a single composable function.
So there's no reason for every component that is using this function to retest this logic in its own
test suite.
Right.
We've isolated this responsibility.
We've made sure that if something is wrong here, our tests should catch it.
So from our components responsibility, a component only cares that it's using previous next pages,
and then it's getting a valid value from it that it can use.
The internals of how I use previous index pages works is now captured in this test suite and that's
the whole benefit of the composition API.
We isolate, we reuse, and we make it super easy to test.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.